In this last video I'm going to show you how you can test CouchDB within the DeveloperVM.
And also how you can create an app based on CouchDB (if that's what you want to do).
Unfortunately, in this part of the MOOC, there isn't enough time to treat NoSQL databases in detail, because I can't expect you to have any background experience with databases or SQL databases.
However, you can learn everything about NoSQL databases on your own. I have compiled a short list of resources for you in this unit.
1. CouchDB The Definitive Guide, an excellent introduction to CouchDB.
I recommend that you go through the first two or three chapters of that tutorial.
2. Apache CouchDB Documentation, an extensive documentation that you can consult when necessary.
3. Complete HTTP API Reference; a really excellent and complete documentation of a RESTful API. You can test all requests listed there directly in the DeveloperVM.
(KQC repeats the three resources.)
It's not easy to install ARSnova.
ARSnova consists of three sub-projects:
1. The mobile client
2. The backend (a Java enterprise edition application based on the Spring framework)
3. A setup tool for creating the view documents for CouchDB.
If you want to install ARSnova in the VM, make sure there is enough disk space left. The current setup of the VM is very limited in space.
If you follow the instructions in this unit, you should succeed in installing ARSnova.
To use ARSnova locally, you have to start the complete backend in the VM.
In this terminal, I have started Jetty ...
with the ARSnova war file (war = web archive) - the  Java application of the backend.
The ARSnova App is running in Firefox.
In Google Chrome, I have opened the CouchDB database.
As you can see, both applications run under localhost, but using different ports.
ARSnova runs on port 8080, the database on port 5984.
Now we can extensively test the RESTful API of CouchDB ...
In the window, you see Futon, the administration backend of CouchDB, which is an application of CouchDB itself.
ARSnova is relatively empty.
After the initial setup, we get these view documents.
Just go ahead and become familiar with the new world of web-based, web-friendly NoSQL databases. CouchDB is a full-stack JavaScript application.
A database which is completely written in JavaScript: The data storage, the application itself as well as all other required components.